README.md, before:

# mtfh-root-config

## Overview

This is the root-config app part of the Single SPA Framework Architecture. It was generated using `create-single-spa` utility and adapted to include a common header and footer. The header and the footer make use of the Hackney Design System. This app is the host for all other microfrontends under the MTFH programme.

## Running it locally
To allow the Google authentication to work locally, you need to alias `http://local.hackney.gov.uk/` to 127.0.0.1 in your local hosts file. This allows the Google authentication token to be accepted as you're on a subdomain of `hackney.gov.uk`.
- Install all dependencies by running `yarn`.
- Run the root application with `yarn start`.
- Load `http://local.hackney.gov.uk:9000` in your browser.

### Loading applications inside the root application locally
Each application that has been configured to run inside the Single SPA framework can either be run in standalone mode or loaded into this root application.

See the README of each application for specific details on how to run that application in either mode.

To load an application into this root application you need to run this root app with `yarn start` and run the application(s) you want to load. With everything running you should be able to just navigate to the route for a specific application to view it.


## Production build

-   You can create a production build by running `yarn build`.

### Testing

-   You can run the unit tests by running `yarn test`.

### Resources

-   [Hackney Design System](https://design-system.hackney.gov.uk/)
-   [Single SPA Framework](https://single-spa.js.org/)
-   [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
-   [EJS Templating](https://ejs.co/)

Commit message:

Feature/authorised routes (#8)
* feat(auth): apply authorised root level access

* chore: update ci/cd pipeline and align terraform config

* fix(cicd): apply correct requirements for promotion

* fix(cicd): fix production promotion in pipeline

Co-authored-by: Gareth Cozens <gareth.cozens@amido.com>

README.md, after:

# mtfh-root-config

## Overview

This is the root-config app part of the Single SPA Framework Architecture. It was generated using `create-single-spa` utility and adapted to include a common header and footer. The header and the footer make use of the Hackney Design System. This app is the host for all other microfrontends under the MTFH programme.

## Running it locally

To allow the Google authentication to work locally, you need to alias `http://local.hackney.gov.uk/` to 127.0.0.1 in your local hosts file. This allows the Google authentication token to be accepted as you're on a subdomain of `hackney.gov.uk`.

-   Install all dependencies by running `yarn`.
-   Run the root application with `yarn start`.
-   Load `http://local.hackney.gov.uk:9000` in your browser.

### Loading applications inside the root application locally

Each application that has been configured to run inside the Single SPA framework can either be run in standalone mode or loaded into this root application.

See the README of each application for specific details on how to run that application in either mode.

To load an application into this root application you need to run this root app with `yarn start` and run the application(s) you want to load. With everything running you should be able to just navigate to the route for a specific application to view it.

### Adding a new microfrontend to the root

1. Create a new repo for the microfrontend application.
2. Bootstrap the app using `create-single-spa`.
3. Build and deploy application.
4. Create enviornment AWS Parameter Store parameters e.g. `/housing-tl/{environment}/{app-name}-app-url`.
5. Register the application to the config imports, and assign template literal (e.g. `{APP_NAME}_APP_URL` in `webpack.config.js` and apply decrementing (10) port value for localhost value.
6. Update `.circleci/config.yml` to expose parameter to environment variable in build steps.
7. Update application repo to mirror port for local dev.
8. Submit PR to root with above changes.

## Production build

-   You can create a production build by running `yarn build`.

### Testing

-   You can run the unit tests by running `yarn test`.

### Resources

-   [Hackney Design System](https://design-system.hackney.gov.uk/)
-   [Single SPA Framework](https://single-spa.js.org/)
-   [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
-   [EJS Templating](https://ejs.co/)
